>> And now, we are going to write,
our own custom components.So we
added some built in components,
that were already a part of unity or
part of packages.
But you can create your own components,
and
that is how you drive
the behaviour of game objects.
So this is where we're gonna
start getting into code,
the first component that we're gonna
create is called rolling movement.
And I'm going to type all of
this out in the editor, so
don't worry about trying
to copy all of this down.
This is just here for
reference, it's in the slides,
if you need to go back and look at it.
So, like I was saying earlier,
components modify the behavior
of game objects in the scene.
So we've already added a rigid body and
a player movement,
or sorry, player input component
to the player game object.
This component is going
to take a 3D vector,
in this variable called
movement direction.
And then we're going to apply that vector,
as a force to the rigid body,
to its physics component.
And that's going to roll the ball
in the direction of that vector,
and this vector is going
to have a magnitude of one,
so we can multiply it by
another variable called speed.
To move it at whatever speed we want
to.We're gonna set the speed to one, and
that's actually the speed that
we're gonna use in the game.
So we don't actually need to
multiply this vector, but
it's something in the inspector that
like I said, you can play with,
you can play with the speed
of the sphere to modify it.
So we are going to code this up and
just a moment.But there's more that I
want to point out here because
this is a lot of stuff,
there's a that is being introduced here.
So first of all,
the name of this class rolling movement,
is also the name of the component.
So when we create scripts in Unity,
we named them the name of the class,
but that's going to show up
as the name of the component.
So when we use Pascal case,
with a capital R and a capital M,
it's going to place spaces
between the two words there,
when it shows up in the inspector.
So it will say rolling space
movement even though the name of
the class has no spaces.
All C sharp scripts that are components
are public, so that they're
accessible in the Unity editor, and
they inherit from the class MonoBehaviour.
And you'll notice that is not
the American spelling of behaviour,
it's because Unity is not
an American company, so
that is not a misspelling
it is behaviour with a U.
So that's really important
all C sharp scripts that
are components inherit from
the class MonoBehaviour.
And let's break this down further in a
different way, at the top, you'll see some
of those namespaces, that I mentioned when
we were talking about the documentation.
Namespaces in C Sharp are basically
just collections of code,
there are a way to organize your code.
So that you don't confuse the names
of your classes with say a class,
and another namespace that
might have the same name.
There's also variables, so
the variables I have listed out here and
we're gonna break down what these
variables actually mean in just a moment.
And then below all the variables,
there are C sharp methods,
there's a few that are built
into the MonoBehaviour class,
such as start, update and fixed update.
And then, you can write your own methods,
like this one
that will reset the position back
to the start.Do we have a question?
>> Is it better to use
the Unity input object,
instead of hard coding the key inputs and
move inside the code?
>> Well,
we're gonna do a little bit of both,
we need to write some code that actually
interacts with that set of actions.
So just adding the actions asset
isn't going to do anything,
when we create the actions asset.
That's really just mapping concepts
in our game to a set of controls.
So well, in our case,
if you have something moving around,
you might wann map that to the WASD keys.
The arrow keys on a keyboard, but
then on a gamepad you might
wanna map that to a joystick.
So it's a way of creating a concept
within the game like, firing a laser or
moving something around that's mapped
to a different set of controls,
it's an abstraction.
However, we also have to write code that
actually interacts with that action.
So when If that button is
pressed on the keyboard,
we need to have code that executes
that actually does something with it.
So we don't just get whatever those
buttons are supposed to do for
free, because it could be
anything.Is that the only question?
Yeah, cool, all right, so
let's move on from here,
So, we got a lot of variables here,
there's a lot of stuff in the script,
let's zoom in, and
take a closer look at just one of these,
so you can understand what
each part of this means.
So if you are, say,
a JavaScript developer or
you're working in some other
web programming language,
a lot of this stuff should
be familiar to you,
a lot of it should map
pretty well one to one.
We have a type here, so
in this case this variable,
this is of type float,
it's a floating point value it's a number.
We have a name for
our variable m_ speed is what
I've called this, and
then we have a value.
That I'm assigning to this by default,
you don't have to assign a value to it,
by default, any float or
integer value is just going to be zero.
But you'll see I have a little f there,
after the number that
indicates that it is a floating point
value that's being assigned to this.
The m underscore necessary, but
it's something that I like to add and
Unity will actually automatically omit
when this is shown in the inspector.
That means that it is just a member
variable, it's a member of this class.
And it's again, not necessary
it's syntactic sugar I would say,
just so
that you know what's a local variable, and
what's a variable that's
part of this class.
The thing that might not be
familiar in JavaScript or
other web programming languages,
are what are called attributes.
And quite frankly,
maybe they are familiar,
I'm not really a web programmer anymore,
I'm very much into games.
So maybe there's concepts that
map to this, but an attribute,
in C sharp changes the behavior of
variables in a couple of interesting ways.
So I'll walk through attributes
in just a second, but
the last thing I wanna point out here is
that, you can also add access modifier.
So in the case of this where there is no
access modifier, this variables private,
so when there's no access modifier
variables are private by default.
I'm going to go back
just one slide just so
you can look at some of these
other variables that are here.
Like this one has a different
attribute hide an inspector, but
then it does have an accessor of
public there, has a different type
of vector three, and then it has
a different name for the variable.
This one has no attribute, no accessor,
it just has a type and it has a name.
And that's actually the minimum amount
that you can have for a variable in Unity.
You need at least a type,
you really need at least a name, and
then we also have our rigid
body there just like that.
So I just wanted you to see
those different things just so
you can get the pattern of attribute
accessor type, and name and then value.
So let's talk more about those attributes,
so,
attributes are markers that can be
placed above a class, a property,
or even a method or function in
a script to indicate special behaviour.
So they're placed in square brackets, and
I think maybe the best way to explain
attributes is to tell you about two of the
attributes that we're using in the script.
So serialized field forces
Unity to serialize,
a private variable, and
show it in the inspector for
modification, so
you saw that we had that speed variable.
When we're working on the game,
we may wanna change that value in
the inspector different from
what it says in the code.
And serializing the variable allows
it to be shown in the inspector,
all public variables
are serialized by default.
So if you create a variable that is
public, it will be shown in the inspector.
And basically, serialization is not
something that you really need to
worry about a whole Lot in Unity,
but it happens behind the scene.
But serialization Is the process
of transforming data structures or
game object states, into a format that
Unity can store and reconstruct later.
So it's just going back and forth between
your code, and the Unity editor and
allowing you to work with those C sharp
variables in the inspector in a way that
unity understands.
And to get a little bit more under the
hood, Unity is actually written in C++ and
C sharp is the scripting language
that we're using on top of that.
So that's why serialization occurs,
it's going through a lot of different
layers of software there that we don't
need to worry about [LAUGH] That's
the great thing about Unity.
There's another attribute that you saw in
that script called hide and inspector,
so like I said,
all public variables are serialized.
They're all visible in the inspector, but
sometimes you want a variable to be public
so that it's accessible by other scripts.
But you don't want it to
be shown in the inspector,
because you don't want it to be
modified when you're tuning the game.
So hide an inspector allows you
to create a public variable,
that is then hidden in the inspector.
There's a couple of different methods
in this script, there is start and
fixed update, and those are two methods
that are part of the MonoBehavior class.
There are lots of other methods that are
part of MonoBehavior, you can check that
out in the documentation we're not
going to go through all of them.
Cuz it would take all day, but
start Is called on the frame,
when a script is enabled, and I say frame
as in like FPS frame rate of the game.
So the first frame that's rendered,
start gets called, and
as an example when you hit the play
button in the Unity editor,
start is going to get called because
it's rendering the first frame.
Okay, so that allows you an opportunity
to kinda set up your scripts.
You can gather other components on
the same game object that you might need,
you can store variables that you're
going to need the values later.
Fixed update Is a frame rate
independent method, that is called
every physics update.So there's a couple
of different updates happening in Unity.
There's the physics update loop,
there's what's called
the actual update loop,
where update is when a frame is rendered.
But you don't want everything in your
game running based on the frame rate,
because the frame rate could be really
high on like a high refresh rate monitor.
Or maybe the game is having
performance issues and
it's running at like 15 frames per second.
There's things that you don't want
running based on the frame rate, and
one of those things is physics.
You want physics to always
behave in a consistent way,
even if the frame rate of the game
is variable, which it will be.
It's very hard to lock frame rate,so,
fixed update allows you to update
things every physics update.
So fixed update is a frame
rate independent method,
that is called every physics update,
typically that's 50 times per
second by default you can change
that in the project settings.
But generally speaking,
any kind of physics calculations,
that you need to happen, as the game is
playing should be done in fixed update, or
you're gonna have unpredictable results.
So if all of your components
that are doing physics
operations are running
those within fixed update.
They'll all stay in sync with one
another and create a consistent,
physics game world.
And again, like I said,
that's in contrast to the update method,
which is called every frame, and
therefore is not frame rate independent
it is frame rate dependent.